# ChemPics App Proposal
### Introduction?
As a highschool currently enrolled in my S.T.E.M school’s Chemistry 10 Honors class, it gets pretty tough once in a while. I've stayed up late studying and trying to understand concepts that are blandly explained in my textbook and online. My friends and I, during our group study sessions experience the same frustration and often understanding one diagram can take hours! That’s what I thought about when formulating this app. My app had to be helpful to kids around the globe, who definitely experience the same irritating itch as they try to understand vaguely explained concepts. That’s what this app is going to solve. I’ve ensured that this app will provide a basic gist of what formulates make up these chemical compounds, but also what they look like visually. I’ve tried searching for answers on Google myself, like I'm sure countless others have, but my efforts always bounce back and go to no avail. So, what could be better than having an app that decodes and explains all the mysteries of Chemistry with only correct and acute answers! Nothing, hence the development of this groundbreaking app. 

### Purpose?
Students are faced with countless assignments and are subjected to the responsibility of managing their time as well. Chemistry is one such subject that provides a surplus of homework to children across the globe. Well, how can we help them? ChemPics is the answer! This app is designed to assist and teach students about the different chemical compounds and their diagrams. With detailed descriptions and accurate diagrams, this app is guaranteed to be the number one chemistry assistant to students and perhaps even adults. 

### How It Works? / Features?
ChemPics can be personalized to your needs and preferences. The home page will present you with the Periodic Table of Elements, and the bottom bar will present you with four options to take you to the different screens, Home, Equations, Diagrams, and Profile. The Equations screen layout is simple and easy to use. The user can choose to either manually insert their formula or scan it using their device’s camera. The app will then load the chemical equation’s full name form and its properties. Some properties include, state of matter, density, molar mass, etc. The Diagrams page also requires the user to insert their desired formula. The page will then load a diagram and a detailed breakthrough of the elements and their structure in the compound. The name of the substance will also be provided. The last page presented is the profile page, where the user can enter their personal information such as their grade and name to personalize their app and provide a more homely feel. 

